# lingolift

This application's goal is to enable people in learning languages while conversing with native speakers.
It is not a standalone language-learning app; instead, it aims to provide translations for everyday phrases
while explaining the grammatical structure and vocabulary of those sentences.

The application uses a mixture of Generative AI and Natural Language Processing (NLP) to perform translation
and sentence analysis. For example, both the idiomatic translation of the input sentence and the literal
translations are generated by GenAI (currently using the OpenAI API); however, the syntactical analysis of sentences
is largely achieved using the spaCy library.

⚠️ This codebase is a work in progress. To check the progress being done, take a look at the [backlog](backlog.md).

## Overview

This codebase is roughly segmented into three parts: A **backend**, a **frontend** and a **Telegram bot**.
Essentially, the backend runs as a Flask server (that can be dockerized), which provides the relevant functionality
via different HTTP endpoints.

The Telegram Bot and the Frontend can both be run as clients for this server to render the
translation info to end-users. The backend utilizes the OpenAI API to generate the relevant information.
You can run the backend with and then either – or both – client applications to consume the backend API.

For more information on how to run this application, check out the respective package's README.md.

## Further Reading

The /syntactical-analysis endpoint creates an analysis of the sentence with spaCy using Universal POS tags.
There are some challenges around rendering this information, which largely belongs to the complex domain of
computational linguistics, in a way that is comprehensible to an average end-user.

If you're interested in reading about POS tagging and NLP in a broader sense, you can check out the following links:

https://universaldependencies.org/format.html#morphological-annotation

https://universaldependencies.org/u/feat/Degree.html

https://spacy.io/api/morphology#morphanalysis

https://www.nltk.org/
